{\rtf1 \mac \ansicpg10000 \nisusversion40007 \deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 \froman \fcharset77 Times-Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f1 \fnil \fcharset77 HelveticaNeue-Bold{\*\falt Helvetica Neue};}{\f2 \fswiss \fcharset77 HelveticaNeue{\*\falt Helvetica Neue};}{\f3 \fswiss \fcharset77 HelveticaNeue-Italic{\*\falt Helvetica Neue};}{\f4 \fswiss \fcharset77 HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic{\*\falt Helvetica Neue};}{\f5 \fswiss \fcharset77 ArialMT{\*\falt Arial};}}{\colortbl ;}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Nicolas Marechal;}}\nisusrevtypes0 \donotshowinsdel1 {\*\nisuslangtbl {\nisuslang0 Tech - URL\code X-TechURL}}{\*\nisustoctable {\nisustoc \tcf68 {\nisustocname Default TOC}{\*\nisustoctabrep  }{\*\nisustocretrep  }{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 1}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 2}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 3}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 4}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 5}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 6}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 7}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 8}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 9}}\nisusactivetoc68
}{\*\nisusxetable {\nisusxe \xef68 {\nisusxename Default Index}{\nisusxeheaderstyle Index Heading}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 1}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 2}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 3}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 4}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 5}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 6}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 7}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 8}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 9}{\*\fldinst INDEX \\k ". " \\g \endash  \\e "\tab " \\l ", " \\f D}}\nisusactivexe68
}{\stylesheet {\s961 \snext961 \sbasedon962 \f0\fs24 \ql\widctlpar\keep0\keepn0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\ltrpar\pardirnatural\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Header;}{\s962 \snext962 \f0\fs24 \ql\widctlpar\keep0\keepn0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\ltrpar\pardirnatural\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Normal;}{\s963 \snext963 \sbasedon962 \f0\fs24 \ql\widctlpar\keep0\keepn0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\ltrpar\pardirnatural\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Footer;}}\defformat {\info {\*\nisusgmtoffset +0:00}{\author Nicolas Marechal}{\creatim \yr2013 \mo2 \dy10 \hr14 \min38 }{\revtim \yr2015 \mo2 \dy11 \hr22 \min52 }}{\*\userprops }\viewkind4 \viewscale92
\nisusviewruler1 \nisusviewrulerh1 \nisusviewrulerv0 \nisusviewtoolbar1 \nisusviewtooldrawer0 \nisusviewpagenumtype1 \nisusviewrulericons0 {\*\nisusviewsettings \viewkind4 \viewscale92 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\closedtochandles }{\*\mode toc}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\showPane 1}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\showPane 1}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}}}{\*\nisusviewsettings \viewkind1 \viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\mode toc}{\*\closedtochandles }{\*\visible 0}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\showPane 1}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\showPane 1}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}}}{\*\nisuswindow \x781 \y435 \w757 \h553 }\nisusrulerunits1
\nshwinv0 \nshwpg1 \nisusinlinespell1 \hyphauto0 \hyphhotz9020 \nisusselectstart1458 \nisusselectlength0 \fet2 \ftnbj \paperw11900 \paperh16840 \margl1440 \margr1440 \margt1800 \margb1800 \gutter0 \pgnstart1 \nocolbal \widowctrl \f0 \sectd \endnhere \linemod0 \cols1 \ltrsect \colbalsxn0 \pgwsxn11900 \pghsxn16840 \marglsxn1440 \margrsxn1440 \margtsxn1800 \margbsxn1800 \guttersxn0 \headery720 \footery360 \pgncont \pgndec \sxnstarts1 \sxnrestart \sxndec {\header \plain \pard \s961 \f0\fs24 }{\footer \plain \pard \s963 \f0\fs24 }\deftab720
{\pard \nisusnos \nowidctlpar {\f1\fs36\b\nisuslangi0 Max for the Visual Arts (m4va)}{\f2\fs28\nisuslangi0 \par
by Nicolas Marechal\par
n.marechal@lcc.arts.ac.uk\par
\par
*********************\par
Max for the Visual Arts is a self-learning tool and a repository for the Max patches made or used on the BA interaction and arts and the MA interactive design communication (IDC) at the London College of Communication (University of the Arts London, United Kingdom)\par
\par
There are two releases of the patch, the {\f1\b complete} version (available on request to educators) and the {\f1\b GIT} version (https://github.com/imi/Max-for-the-Visual-Arts). The GIT is a light version where the {\f1\b externals}, {\f1\b java}, {\f1\b media} and the {\f1\b applications} folders{\f1\b  }are not included (some links in the patches will not work). \par
\par
Run the main patch {\f1\b _M4VA_help} from the Extras menu. Also in the Extras menu, look in the {\f1\b _M4VA }folder for various toolboxes. To install some of the externals we use (shell, dot, cv, ...), open the {\f1\b objects_download} patch. \par
{\f1\b \par
}The {\f1\b Max4VisualArts} folder is located in the /{\f3\i Users/Shared/Max 7}/{\f3\i Packages/Max4VisualArts} folder. From version 2.50, the patches have been optimised to work with {\f1\b Max 7}, they should work in Max 6 but Max 5 is no longer supported (some patches will not work).\par
\par
{\f1\b Minimum requirement:} shell object (http://cycling74.com/toolbox/bernstein-shell/){\f1\fs36\b \par
\fs28 \par
}*********************\par
{\f1\fs36\b Version history}\par
\par
2.51 - April 2015 (release 2)\par
\par
{\f1\b New patches}: Syphon DeepBeliever (Exhibition>OSCcontrol), bingdownload (Internet), birdcall (Internet), mbta (Internet), soundcloud (internet).{\nisusselectcaret \par
\par
}{\f1\b Bugs}: few aesthetical bugs, sflist~ and sfplay~now work properly.\par
\par
*********************\par
2.50 - February 2015\par
\par
This update brings a new name and slightly different graphics compatible with Max 7. \par
\par
{\f1\b New patches}: internet sensors (Max102 > internet)\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs}: video with alpha recompressed with Apple Pro Res 4444 to be compatible with the new quicktime engine, java installed in Max7>Contents>Resources>C74>java-classes>m4va (the complete installer does it automatically).\par
\par
*********************\par
2.34 - October 2014\par
\par
{\f1\b New patches}: openNI_GLmodel (kinect), GLsketch_translate (DbN), openNI_GLmultiple (kinect), GLmultiple_model (GLmultiple), analog_miller (arduino interfaces), serial_parseint (arduino interfaces), IP_broadcast (imi toolbox), IMI_text_wrapper (text>IMI_type_text), IMI_text3D (text), phys_multiple_stars (physics).{\f1\b \par
\par
Updates: }TSPSosc (computer vision), openNI_practice (kinect), openNI_GLgridshape (kinect), tweening (imi toolbox), IMI_multi_sound_player (sound), SyphonEye (grab), GLcamera (Max104). GLsyphon (exhibition), IMI_videograb.\par
\par
{\f1\b Applications}: TSPS 1.34, TSPS multicam 1.34\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} MubU for Max 1.78\par
\par
{\f1\b Packages:} jit.gl.hap (version 1.0.3)\par
\par
*********************\par
2.33 - May 2014\par
\par
{\f1\b New}: mira_camera, mira_grid, mira_sound_mixer (IMI misc interfaces), IMI_mira_space_mapping (projection), GLgridshape2syphon, GLnode2syphon (IMI_GLsyphon), imi.matrixset (IMI toolbox), FFTMatrix (Effects), imi.encoder (toolbox), kinect2GLgridshape (kinect), kinectSkelMesh (kinect), freenect-touch, text_encoding (toolbox), kinect tools (computer vision > kinect), ChladniGen (DbNDemo), Swarm (DbNDemo), grab_hotspot (Grab), phys_forcesystem (Max104>Phys>Phys.multiple), matrix_control (IMI_multi_sound_player), blend_text2D (IMI compositing modes), blend_text3D (IMI compositing modes), sliding_light (matrix positioning), vectorMover, vectorBouncer (GLanimation), phys_collision (Max 104), GLanimation (GLgridshape): anim.line, anim.bline, anim.path, anim.path2, anim.path3, Syphon_client+ (GLsyphon tools>grab2syphon), openNI_practice (kinect), Gen_scalebias, GLmesh_catch~.\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates:} imi.looptheloop (v007), IMI_text_alpha, IMI_video_grab, kinect, jit.openni help, jit.synapse help, _IMI_help advanced (Max104 only), kinect, ESC_fullscreen+ (v009).\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals}:, filesys0.2.5, jruby_for_max-1.0.2, wsserver-v0-1-1, MubuForMax 1.74, Syphon beta3, BlackMagic Syphon, twitter4j-4.0.1 (to use with searchtweet 1.1), net.loadbang.scripting-1.1.1 (to use with Jython), Mira 1.1.7.\par
\par
{\f1\b Applications (apps folder):} Syphon recorder (version 12), IPCAM2SYPHON_0.9\par
\par
{\f1\b Packages:} jit.gl.hap (version 1.0.2)\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs}: corrected some aesthetical bugs, jit.synapse.mxo is back in the Max search path, imi.mgra, ESC_fullscreen+ seems to correct the GL mad window bug when going fullscreen (uses screensize object rather than the fullscreen message).\par
\par
*********************\par
2.32 - January 2014\par
\par
{\f1\b New}: mgraphics_text_alpha, mgraphics_translate, IMI_text_oulipo (text), Catadelaunay (imi toolbox), midi sounds, scaling math (tweening), fxwdmxusbpro (IMI misc interfaces), ez-maxuino-servo (arduino interfaces > maxuino), OpenWeather (Internet), IMI_max_messaging (introduction), conductive_tea (sensors > misc interfaces), bouncy balls (drawing > max_processing), touche_graph, touche_peak (IMI_misc sensors), playlist (exhibtion>iCinema>icinema tools), Triplehead2Go (DTR version).\par
\par
{\f1\b Update}: Randomness (toolbox), IMI_arduino_sensors (sensors), function interpolation (toolbox), tweening (IMI sensors tools), delta_detect (IMI sensors tools), OSCuino package, maxuino patch (arduino sensors), re-organised the OSC patches in IMI_osc (sensors), imi.looptheloop (v006), IMI_arduino_interfaces, IMIoscuinoSerial (v003), IMI_loadbangs (Global>IMI_toolbox).\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} CNMAT_Externals 1.0-68, MMJ (3.1), Vipr (video streaming), MAAD, TouchOSC editor v1.6, OSCseq 1.03\par
\par
{\f1\b Packages:} jit.gl.hap, Mira 1.1.6\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs}: past2, mini maxuimi\par
\par
*********************\par
2.31 - October 2013 \par
\par
{\f1\b New}: imi.movieloader 0.2 (toolbox) , exhibition_tools (templates & sensors tools), IMI_dict (IMI toolbox), bfg_intro (DbN2D>GLMesh), queries (file > new file browser), Max_style_guide 002 (global), grab_position (video grab), IMI_json (internet), IMI_json+ (internet) IMI_xively2json (internet), PhilipsHue (sensors>misc sensors), PattrSave (toolbox), CSV2Matrix (toolbox), phys_patch_a_day (physics), GLmultiple_textures+ (GLmultiple), Gen_phys2mesh (physics), GLmesh_transparency (GLmesh), serial call-response (arduino interfaces).\par
\par
{\f1\b Update}: the movies are now loaded from the IMIMovies.txt file (IMIpatches/patchers/z folder), Improved compatibility for the GIT version, re-organised introduction and global, Arduino programs updates (LED on during the void setup, LED off during the void loop), IMI arduino2max 003 (Sensors), IMI arduino2max6 003 (Sensors), IMI_capsense2max12 003 (Sensors), maxuimi and mini_maxuimi (compatibility with maxuino 16), re-organised the imi_tooldbox, tabbed IMI_multi_sound_player, SensorBox and SensorBox Mux.\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} MuBuForMax 1.6.7, gf-1.6.8, maxuino_b016, searchtweet 1.1, aka.leapmotion 0.2, PhidgetLED-64, PhidgetAdvancedServo-8 (misc interfaces), IPcam2syphon, JRuby 1.01, PHI Launchpad InOut 1.03.\par
\par
{\f1\b Package:} Mira\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs}: IMI_quicktime, IMI_simple_video_player, IMI_videograb, Lightpaint-example (DbN Demo) and many other adjustements and bugs corrected. Use light grey rather than dark grey as a background for a better legibility of the main screen. Replaced ajm.ruby by jruby in the ajm objects.\par
\par
*********************\par
2.30 - June 2013\par
\par
The patchers have been reorganized to use the package feature in Max 6.1.\par
\par
{\f1\b New}: SyphonEye for PS3 (Grab), IMI_average (imi toolbox), GLpath_evaluation (GLpath), cv_colour_follower (IMI_colourtrack), cv_track (cv_misc), GLdepthwrite (toolbox), Movie2LED (IMI misc interfaces), IMI_poly_sound (IMI_multi_sound_player), GLpath_draw, IMI_triplehead2go (Exhibition), IMI_triplehead2go_syphon (Exhibition), GLpix_colourFX (Effects), cv_opticalflow (cv_misc), imi.dist (toolbox/imi), imi.apploader (toolbox/imi), imi.docloader (toolbox/imi).\par
\par
{\f1\b Update:} jit.lcd is being replaced by jit.mgraphics (in progress), reorganised GLtextures (Max103) and GLmodel (Max103), IMI_text_alpha and IMI_text_alpha+ (simplified), reshuffled Max102 (Matrix, Text, Internet and Grab), Applescripts now work from both the application or the document folder (Max package downloader compatibility), more links to Arduino and Wii programs: arduino2max, arduino2max6, capsense2Max, ...\par
\par
{\f1\b Package:} jit.gl.hap, TapTools 4.0 b2 (IMI version).\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} Shell (6.1 update), VIPR (encode/decode video data).\par
\par
{\f1\b Applications (apps folder):} OSCseq 1.0.2, OSCTestApp 0.2.4, simpleKinect.\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs:} tighter to the imi style guide, patchers default font size to Arial 12, replaced the slide object where there is a 6.1 slide bug. Many minor bugs corrected.\par
\par
{\f1\b GIT}: you can either do a manual install (just drop the IMIpatches folder in the packages folder) or use the install.command that will install the patches in the example folder (Max 6) or the package folder (Max 6.1).  \par
\par
*********************\par
2.27 - March 2013\par
\par
{\f1\b New:} GLsketch_join (DbN3D), Wii_accelerometer (IMI_wii_interfaces), boid2d2GLmesh (GLmultiple), GLmesh2GLmultiple (GLmultiple), GLmultiple_order (GLmultiple), scheduled_events (iCinema), image_adjustment (video), GLgen_xfades (Gen), IMI_multilayer_poly (exhibition > IMI_multi-layered_video), synching_video (Exhibition>IMI_video_twoscreens), Randomness sub-category (imi toolbox), Markov_chains, Markov_chains+, Markov_examples, stochastic_flocking, mini maxuimi (arduino interfaces > maxuimi), OSC movie synch, mini-maxuimi (Sensors>Arduino sensors).\par
\par
{\f1\b Update:} reorganised GLmultiple, reorganised and updated Matrix, small updates to the Arduino programs.\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} Can-Tools (some)\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs:} changed from loadbang > fsmenubar 0 to @fsmenubar 0 in the jit window, hoping to solve the GL mad window bug !\par
\par
*********************\par
2.26 - January 2013\par
\par
{\f1\b New: }scope (sound toolbox), framediff with zones (computer vision>c74_camera_data> frame_difference), phys_hinge+ (physics>phys_basics), simple_probability (imi toolbox), GLmesh_video2coord (GLmesh>GLmesh video), Iannix (IMI_misc_interfaces), kinect-a to Max (kinect), freenect moments (kinect), freenect tracking (kinect), bodybuilder (kinect), GLsketch_capture+ (DbN3D), GLsketchtex_capture (DbN3D), cv2draw (cv_misc), cv_feature2GLdraw (cv2draw), cv_feature2GLdraw+ (cv2draw), GLmultiple_queries (GLmultiple), analyzer_in_practice (_sound_toolbox>analyzer~), GLgridshape_svf (GLgridshape), GLgridshape_fffb (GLgridshape), cv_learn (cv_misc), cv_threshold (cv_misc), cv_multitouch (cv_misc), phys_membrane (physics>phys_multiple), phys_string (physics>phys_multiple), cv_faces2camera (cv_faces.findreplace), cv_faces2GL (cv_faces.findreplace), cv_faces2GL2 (cv_faces.findreplace), cv_feature2GLdraw (cv_misc), cv_feature2GLdraw+ (cv_misc), OSCuino, Wii_accelerometer.{\f1\b \par
\par
Update: }reorganised the kinect category and added ressources (Max102>Computer Vision), fiddle~help, new sounds in the media folder, IMI_pachube2OSC to IMI_cosm2OSC, GLmesh_shatter, cv.jit.label (@mode 0), cv.jit.label (@mode 1), cv.jit blobs bounds, cv.jit.blobs centroids, jitwebimage, GLpicker (GLcamera), arduino2max, arduino2max multiple.{\f1\b \par
\par
Externals:} SadamLib 30/12/2012, jit.openni 0.86 (install zigfu from the more folder), searchtweets, imp.artnet 0.9, KinectA (version 0.2), Osceleton (with Kinect via Osceleton), TUIOKinect, PM1_piezo-translator (sound toolbox), Jon Bellona's Kinect helpers, zns.apan (sound toolbox), timeline (IMI_iCinema), TapTools 4b1 (needs Jamoma 0.5.7 or higher), dot_20121204, o.dot 1.2.11.{\f1\b \par
\par
Bugs:} removed the twitter read (doesn't work with the current Twitter API) and replaced them with a searchtweets. Replaced tap.ascii by atoi and tap.itoa by itoa. Repaired the jitter overview patch, few minor bugs corrected. The old .help files have been update to .maxhelp for a better compatibility, mistakes in the jit.expr+ patch. AJK and AKA.wiiremote not compatible with 10.8.{\f1\b \par
\par
More:} the more folder is now a separate install: the {\f4\b\i imi extra} folder. It contains applications or utilities to add functionalities to Max.\par
\par
*********************\par
2.25 - September 2012\par
\par
{\f1\b Six new advanced categories for Max6 (Max 104): \par
Camera, Path, Animation, Node, Physics and Gen. }\par
\par
{\f1\b New: }grab2syphon (videograb), GLcorner_edgeblend (projection), IMI_matrix_workflow, GLcamera, GLcamera (using render), GLpicker, GLcamera_2Dto3D, GLcamera_viewport, GLmultiple_camera, path_animation_intro, GLpath_screen2anim, GLpath_selector, GLpath_render, anim_node, anim_drive_tunnel, anim_drive_camera, anim_node2camera, GLnode_basic, GLnode_capture, GLnode_glow, GLnode_nurb, phys_basic, phys_collision, phys_collisions, Grab2Phys2D, Gen_examples, Gen_tutorials, Gen_vs_Expr, Pix_gamma, Gen_nearest2erode, GLpix_bulge, GLpix_blur, GLskybox, OSC2Modul8, OSC-route_alt, OSCulator_routing, GLslab collection, GLslab_glow_and_blur, GLmesh_bouncebox, GLmesh_displacement, GLlight, fog, Gen_code_index, gen_cross_product, gen_dim, gen_dot_product, gen_length, gen_normal, gen_reflexion, anim_drive2camera, anim_drive2camera+, anim.node_animturn, gridshape_animturn, phys.multiple, vector calculation (imi toolbox) using the lua library, vector in practice (imi toolbox): vector_add, vector_sub, dotProduct and crossProduct, centroid3, centroid4, intersect lines, point distance, findbounds (IMI colourtrack).\par
{\f1\b \par
Updates: }reorganised GLsmooth (projection), the matrix subject (matrix) and GLmesh (DbN3D), changed the Internet category to Max102 and Effects to Max103.\par
\par
IMI space mapping (rev 007), IMI_video_two_screens (rev 013), IMI video grab+ (grab), texture+, anim_video, IMI_simple_video_player, IMI_simple_video_player+, GLblending, IMI arduino interfaces, Maxuimi (a grey version of the Maxuino), cv.jit.centroid, GLgridshape, function interpolation, fractals (imi.toolbox).{\f1\b \par
\par
Externals}: Mubu Gesture Follower 1.6.3, Maxuino 014, SadamLib 27/7/2012, osculator.js (James Drake), Olaoutput 0.6 (needs the OLA application), dmxusbpro-1.4.1 (DEMO).\par
\par
{\f1\b Applications:} OSCseq 0.9.18, TouchOSC 1.5.6\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs:} shell.maxhelp and applescripts calls (mountain lion doesn't seems to like the <arch i386> cmd), removed max showmenubar; and max hidemenubar; from p ESC-fullscreen as it seemed to cause a nasty bug with graphic card (since Max 6) + a lot of tweaking, improved connexions and simplification in the description or the Max code.\par
{\f1\b \par
More: }Tap.Tools 3.64, FTM 2.6.0 beta, Sane for OS X 10.7, nmap 6.01\par
\par
*********************\par
2.21 - May 2012\par
\par
{\f1\b New: }IMI_OSC2Millumin (exhibition), IMI_multi-layer_anim (exhibition), IMI_space_mapping_poly (exhibition), IMI_video-output (toolbox), imi.oneint (onebang for integers), jit.anim_video (exhibition>IMI_multi-layered_video), GLmodel2texture (GLmisc), GLnurbs_ctlmatrix (GLnurbs), gencoord_expr_gen (IMI.jit.expression), text3d2alpha (text), GLmesh tutorial (11 patches in DbN), Camera2Phys2D (Toolbox>3D), IMI_maxhelp_a_day (introduction), GLisosurf, GLgridshape_camera, max2arduino (arduino interfaces), GLrender_techniques (GLgridshape>layers), video_maks_alphablend, video_mask (layers).\par
{\f1\b \par
Updates: }IMI_lcd_processing (multiple, collision and mouse control), IMI_netReceive, IMI_netSend, cv_HSflow (p hsflow2bang), imi.matrix2cell (rev 002), IMI_texture, Arduino programs to Arduino 1.0 (.ino), re-organised GLnurbs and GLmesh (and added links to Andrew Benson's recipes), GLgridshape, GLsketch_command, IMI_compositing_modes, IMI_video_twoscreens, IMI_video_player3MASTER, IMI_video_player3SLAVE.{\f1\b \par
\par
Externals}: Mubu Gesture Follower 1.5 beta7, jit.freenect.grab_rc5, Xbee4Max\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs:} removed help for jasch's round, rtc's help for minus\par
\par
{\f1\b More }(optional installs){\f1\b :} Jamoma-0.5.6-b7, Tap.Tools 3.61, MeshWarper 003\par
\par
*********************\par
2.20 - March 2012\par
\par
{\f1\b Max 6 release !}\par
\par
{\f1\b New:} renderMaster (projection), GLcornerpin+ (projection), IMI_simple_triggers (Sensors>IMI_sensor_tools), IMI_multi_voices (Sound>IMI_multi_sound_player), imi.looptheloop (iCinema) {\f1\b \par
\par
Updates:  }Switched the Sensors (Max 101) and Text (201) categories, _IMI_help (interface),{\f1\b  }IMI_Max_sandpit, Max patching rules (006), jit.qt.movie, IMI_simple_video_player, GLsmooth, Video to GL mesh, shader overview, GL smooth, GL gridshape (including layers, anchor, assembling, texture and texture+), texture2GLsketch, IMI_space_mapping (rev 005), Jitter2Syphon (imi toolbox) and many more !\par
{\f1\b \par
Externals:} xray.jit.cellvalue updtate by Wes for h.line, Syphon Beta 2 r2, Syphon Recorder, maxuino alpha-12, Mubu Gesture Follower 1.5 beta4\par
{\f1\b \par
Bugs:} IMI_simple_video_player+, GLsketch_assemble, ESC-fullscreen (rev 5) to correct the "fsmenubar" bug, "panel" bug, shell, applescripts and other links updated to the Max6 folder.\par
{\f1\b \par
More }(optional installs){\f1\b :} eijes 3.0beta1{\f1\b  }(compatibility with Max6){\f1\b \par
\par
Incompatible with Max 6:} Cosm\par
\par
*********************\par
2.15 - February 2012\par
{\f1\b \par
New:} imi.looptheloop, imi.frameconv, imi.debug, imi.seqbang, IMI space mapping (exhibition, new version), videomap02 (space mapping's slave patch), matrix_collision, iCinema-03, {\f1\b  }h.line (effect), live_grid, IMI_OSCResolume\par
{\f1\b \par
Updates: }iCinema-01, iCinema-02, cv_HSflow (p hsflow2bang)\par
{\f1\b \par
Externals:} zsa.descriptors_1.0GM3\par
{\f1\b \par
More }(optional installs){\f1\b : }Jamoma 0.56b4, JamomaUserLib (19/12/2011), eijes 3.0beta1{\f1\b \par
}\par
*********************\par
2.14 - January 2012\par
\par
{\f1\b New:} cv_misc (cv_objects), cv_freekinect (cv_objects), freenect_normalised (cv_freekinect), freenect_depthselector (cv_freekinect), freenect_nurbs (cv_freekinect), synapse (cv_freekinect), cv_track eyes (cv_objects>cv_faces), IMI_space_mapping (exhibition), GLsketch, GLgraph, GLmisc (DbN3D), GLmesh_shadows (DbN3D), GLmesh_shadows+ (DbN3D), imi.matrix2cell (_toolbox), list_in_max (list_toolbox), network_scanner (imi_toolbox), IMI_lcd_space (DbN2D), imi.through, imi.bounce.\par
\par
{\f1\b Toolbox: }blobtrack by Jesse French (toolbox>computer_vision), GLslab_crossfade, GLslab_edgeblend (toolbox>GL), PattrKitty (Pattr tutorial) by Chris Muir.\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates:} updated and reorganised computer vision, design by number and the list toolbox categories, asyncread_export, GLgeometry, GLmesh, GLNurbs, IMI_OSC2VPT (compatible with VPT6), IMI_jitexpr, IMI_jitexpr+, Metasynth~ by Luke DuBois (sound toolbox), shell (imi toolbox), IMI_misc_interfaces, imi.text_counter, imi.splitscale, IMI_iCinema01, IMI_iCinema02\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} VPT 6r09 (12/2011), oscjavaformax 1.5, OSCseq 0.9.14\par
\par
{\f1\b More} (optional installs): Jamoma 0.5.4, FTM 2.5 Beta 22, Unix extra folder (growlnotify, imagemagick, nmap and screenresolution): see the shell help (imi toolbox) for usage.\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs:} the "bug hunting" version: many links and cosmetic bugs, added a different refer for every toolbox, the toolbox folder access (Extras>_IMI) now works without crashing Max, improved compatibility with applescripts.\par
\par
*********************\par
2.13 - November 2011\par
\par
{\f1\b New:} sketchpad (DbN3D), polar_cartesian (imi_toolbox), IMI_2d_poltocar (imi_toolbox>polar_cartesian), 3d_cartopol (imi_toolbox>polar_cartesian), IMI_xml (Internet), poly~movie (IMI jit.qt.movie), FaceOSC (computer vision), Touch OSC tutorial by Nathan Bowen (sensors>IMI misc interfaces), Metasynth~ by Luke DuBois (sound toolbox).\par
{\f1\b \par
Updates: }IMI_filtering_change, IMI_quicktime in practice, Max patching rules (005), face2gridshape (toolbox>computer vision), regexp tutorial (internet), J-F Charles spectral transformation (Expo'74).{\f1\b \par
\par
Externals:} VPT 6r05 (08/2011), Sadam Library (08/2011), GF-Mubu.1.3.3.beta (gesture follower), dot_max5 (10/2011).\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs: }corrected the link to the Twitter API, repaired the link to polymovie.maxpat\par
\par
*********************\par
2.11 - July 2011\par
\par
{\f1\b New:} a-jit.human (cv>background removal), TUIOclient (sensors) + TUIO simulator, imi.draw (simulates Processing's center + corner drawing), IMI_lcd_processing group: example 1_1, example 1_2, example 1_3, example 1_5 (adapted from Learning Processing by Daniel Shiffman), IMI_rota (a simpler help than jit.rota).\par
{\f1\b \par
Updates:} IMI_jit.matrix_and_friends (matrix), IMI_video_twoscreens (exhibition - rev 006), IMI_video_player3MASTER (exhibition), IMI_video_player3SLAVE (exhibition), IMI jit.lcd (uses imi.draw), IMI lcd motion (uses imi.draw), IMI lcd motion+ (uses imi.draw), IMI lcd oscillation (uses imi.draw), IMI noise2lcd (uses imi.draw), IMI noise2lcd+ (uses imi.draw), Wiimote2Max and Wiimote2Max simple, background removal (computer vision), Max patching rules (introduction).\par
\par
{\f1\b Toolbox:} Jitter2Syphon, function interpolation\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} o.objects: osc tools - CNMAT (IMI misc interfaces)\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs:} corrected an applescript loading from Max (replaced aka.shell with shell), IMI jit.matrix and friends (bad link to jit.concat). Many cosmetic updates.\par
\par
*************\par
2.10 - June 2011\par
\par
{\f1\b GIT release !}\par
http://github.com/imi/IMI-Max-patches\par
\par
With the GIT release, the {\f1\b media} {\f1\b folder}, and the {\f1\b Externals folder} are not included. To install Externals use the {\f1\b Externals_download} patch in the Max Extra > _IMI menu.\par
\par
*************\par
2.09 - June 2011\par
\par
{\f1\b New: }Max's patching rules (introduction), BlinkM (sensors), IMI_videograb+ (grab), GLsmooth (projection), JittervsGL (extra), IMI_misc interfaces (sensors), IMI_filtering_change (IMI_sensors_tools), plugin_download (for the bitbucket version)\par
{\f1\b \par
Toolbox }(Extra>_IMI>toolbox){\f1\b :} Max2iTunes (sound), 3D head_navigation (3D), texture2GLSketch (3D), IMI_netReceive (network), IMI_netSend (network), 3Dcube (computer vision), 3Dnavigation (computer vision), cv_eyetracker (computer vision), cv_face_tilting (computer vision), cv_follow_points (computer vision)\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates: }v.region (computer vision), IMI_gridshape (added gridshape axis), better actionscript to access the sensor and the toolbox folders.\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals:} eijes library (2.01), x-ray.jit, FantaStickv2.3 and MMF-Fantastick for iPhone (Sensors)\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals} {\f1\b updates: }zsa.descriptors (1.0GM), CNMAT-Everything (April 2011)\par
\par
*************\par
2.08 - May 2011\par
{\f1\b \par
New:} IMI_coll2text2d, IMI_coll2text2d+, IMI_xbee_interfaces (AT and API mode), IMI_wii_interfaces (a collection of patches for the Wii), Multi-text, imi.matrixinfo, v.region, asyncread export (facilitate the exporting images or video for documentation), GLMultiple (new introduction)\par
{\f1\b \par
Toolbox: }numbers, text2text_fade, twitscoop{\f1\b \par
\par
Updates:} Computer Vision (102), uldl2regexp (now reloads properly)\par
{\f1\b \par
Externals:} openTSPS (Computer Vision), aka.speech, TUIO_MaxMSP, maxbee 0.2 (IMI version works on Mac - in progress), polybuffer_beta3_M (now works), ajh.wiiremote alpha 1.6, aka.wiiremote-b7\par
\par
{\f1\b More folder:} FTM 2.5 (beta 20), Cyclops 1.4\par
\par
*************\par
2.07 - April 2011\par
{\f1\b \par
New:} list_toolbox (to help with lists in Max), v.region{\f1\b \par
\par
Toolbox: }IMI_fileout{\f1\b  }(misc){\f1\b \par
\par
Updates:} IMI_gridshape (103), IMI_multi-layered video (103), IMI_max2printer, IMI_counter_uzi_line (misc_toolbox).\par
\par
The list_toolbox, the misc_toolbox and the sound_toolbox are in the {\f1\b Extra>IMI folder.}\par
{\f1\b \par
Externals: }jfc-spectral-tutorials (see freeze in the sound toolbox), ARToolKit (Augmented Reality), mbrola4max (voice synthesis), fileout 1.1\par
\par
{\f1\b More folder }has some optional Externals for Max: \par
Jamoma 0.5.2, FTM 2.5 (beta 19) and Tap.Tools 3.2.0 (payware).\par
\par
*************\par
2.06 - March 2011\par
\par
{\f1\b New patches: }IMI colourtrack (computer vision), renderMaster + SceneProcess (effects), IMI_quickpractice (jit.qt.movie in practice).\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates: }IMI_jit.qt.movie{\f1\b , }IM_ jit.qt.movie+{\f1\b \par
Externals update}: c74 version 1.4, VPT 5.1\par
\par
{\f1\b Corrections and other bugs:} arduino2max now works as expected + many minor corrections.\par
\par
*************\par
2.05 - January 2011\par
\par
{\f1\b New patches}: color patch (to colorize the IMI help), IMI_type text (for lcd or text3D), IMI_noise2lcd (jit.iter), IMI_cosm_one (single agent), IMI_cosm world (multiple agents), IMI_screenworld, IMI_text_search (along with a British-English free dictionary), gl-slab-gpu and gl-slab-gpu+ (play movies using the graphic card for maximum efficiency), Video2GLMesh, CV_glsketch, GLSketch_bouncebox, GLGridshape_roundtable, npdraw (simple drawing application), cv.jit.faces find and replace, tweening, BBCdownload (xml to coll), IMI_pachube2OSC, IMI_pachube_CC128 (current cost display unit) with pachube module and regexp_cookbook. The iCinema patch is a new collection of IMI's experiments around interactive cinema.\par
\par
New {\f4\b\i imi.objects}: imi_fullscreen (pos x, pos y, size x, size y), imi.draw (centered shape) to use with the lcd object, imi.plus, imi.minus (add or substract with both active inlets), imi.splitscale, imi.slide (slide object for jitter), imi.counter (counts when speed matters).\par
\par
{\f1\b Update}: revised version of the ESC-fullscreen (002) with options for the fsaa, depthbuffer, position and size. Revised the DbN tutorial with more on jit.expression, fractals, nurbs, glmultiple, screentoworld, cosm, noise2lcd (iter and spill), matrix_lookup, a better twitter_read (xml to coll) and Luke Hall's regexp_tutorial.\par
\par
{\f1\b New Externals}: Cosm (Mad Professor version / February 2010), sa.function (function curve), sfmarker (read markers from sound files), sadamLib_2010-12-07, jit.freenect.grab_rc1 (kinect driver), GF 0.39 (IRCAM's \f5
real-time following and recognition of gestures), \f2 udmx (DMX library), boids objects (bird flight and animal flock simulator), mass spring damper, sc-max0.21, threshold~ (monitors input signal and outputs bangs when the signal exceeds a specified value).\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals update}: ajm 0.91, CNMAT everything (9/2010), Messenger 1.5, CVjit 1.72{\f1\b \par
\par
More folder} (in the Max 5 folder) has some extra Externals for Max: FTM.2.5.0.BETA.18-Max5, Jamoma-0.5.1 and Tap.Tools-3.2.0 (payware).\par
\par
+ many, many improvements... The library has now more than {\f1\b 230 patches} in total.\par
\par
*************\par
1.96 - October 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b New patches:} IMI_OSC2VPT (to control VPT from Max), test UDPreceiver, VPT loader.\par
Many minor updates and improvements, revised the arduino sensor category (IMI_arduino2max, IMI_arduino2max12, Graph_Max) for clarity and efficiency. The sound player patches doesn't include the arduino interface anymore.\par
\par
{\f1\b Updated Externals:} VPT_4.1b5_osx, dot.object (07/07/2010)\par
\par
*********************\par
1.92 - June 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b New theme:} Text basics\par
{\f1\b \par
New patches:} IMI_text_alpha, IMI_text_compare (text), IMI_grid_assembling (projection), IMI_splitscale (a scale object that maps value according from a center value)\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates:} twitter read (Internet), IMI_text_alpha+, jit.quicktime, jit.quicktime+, sound_player_qtmovie (1.3), sound_player_sfplay (1.1), Matrix04 tutorial\par
{\f1\b \par
Updated Externals:} CV.jit tools 1.7\par
\par
*********************\par
1.80 - April 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b New themes:} camera_data (computer vision) and video processing system (exhibition) taken from some tutorials by Andrew Benson published on the Cycling'74 website.\par
New patches: IMI_multi_sound_player (sound), loop_maker (sound), IMI_HSflow (cv_objects), grab_hotspot (grab), multi-layered video (exhibition)\par
\par
{\f1\b New media files}: ears.mov, drift.mov, alpha.mov, background.mov, lighton.mov, lightoff.mov, sound1.wav, sound2.wav, sound3.wav\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates}: Maxuino 009, IMI_sound_player (qtmovie / sfplayer), \par
IMI arduino interfaces now include the arduino code when relevant.\par
Change: Reshuffle of categories (text and grab have been swapped), \par
forbidden~planet (sound) has been moved to the CNMAT theme\par
{\f1\b \par
Bugs:} Maxuino link corrected, various bugs fix and improvements.\par
\par
*********************\par
1.70 - March 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b Patches:} AudioVideoAnalysis (Computer Vision), matrix_positioning, matrix_kaleidoscope (Matrix), badTV (effect), counter/uzi/line, table, modulo, jit.expr+ (DbNtools), DbN Random and Drawing tutorial (DbN3D), twitter read (Internet)\par
{\f1\b \par
Externals:} f0.abstractions (090922), c74(v1.3), fiddle~/bonk~/sigmund~ (CRCA), boid, box2d, shell UB (replaces aka.shell)\par
\par
{\f1\b Updates:} Reorganisation of Max 101 / Max 103 in the main IMI_help, CNMAT, Maxuino 008\par
\par
{\f1\b Bugs}: Corrected some install bug.\par
\par
*********************\par
1.60 - 29th January 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b Theme:} design by numbers (17 patches)\par
{\f1\b Patches:} IMI_jitexpr (part of the jit.matrix / DbN)\par
{\f1\b Externals:} cellblock2csv\par
\par
New sensor interface: OSCuino (6)\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals updates:} ajh.wiiremote (alpha 1.5), Video_Projection_Tool opens the VPT application and not the patch.\par
\par
*********************\par
1.55 - 11th January 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b New Externals}: RTC library (version 5), ajh.wiiremote alpha 1.4 (replaces aka.wiiremote)\par
\par
Bugs: Removed some of the Lobjects from Cycling\rquote
74 folder because of a newer version installed with the new RTC lib (Lsum,Lsub,Lround,Lrem, Lpow, Lmult, Lmerge, Lexpr, Ldiv, ladd, labs)\par
Removed tap.tools 3.02 from the extensions (compatibility problems with Janoma)\par
Renamed the IMI_basic_sensor_interfaces and corrected the parent links\par
Corrected non working links in the v001 patch\par
Removed the sensor tools from the global category (it\rquote s only in the sensors category now)\fs24 \par
\fs28 \par
*********************\par
1.50 - 5th January 2010\par
\par
New install method using Iceberg (http://s.sudre.free.fr/Software/Iceberg.html).\par
\par
*********************\par
1.20 - 5th January 2010\par
\par
{\f1\b Themes:} jitter matrix, lcd object (jit.lcd)\par
{\f1\b Sub-themes:} compositing (in the effect theme, Max102), shaders (jit.gl.slab, Max102)\par
{\f1\b Patches:} jit.op, lumagate (effects), a Janoma example (computer vision), XML and regexp help (internet tools), \par
video player for two or three screens (exhibition), GL.slab, ShaderOverview_v001\par
{\f1\b Externals:} CNMAT object, CV.jit tools, AJM tools, Jasch objects, Lobjects, f0, dot objects, jr abstractions, the Pelado objects and the v001 shaders (see the ShaderOverview_v001 in the effects)\par
{\f1\b Media}: ring.mov / sophie.mov / tom.mov (from IMAL / Brussels).\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals updates}: HC Gilje's VPT is now version 4.1\par
The IMI sound players now work independently from the sensors interfaces. \par
Use the IMI_basic_interfaces.maxpat patch to connect your patch with sensors.\par
{\f1\b \par
Bugs}: The open folder applescript is now compatible with any Mac (using osascript)\par
Many minor improvements (interface consistency) and corrections.\par
\par
*********************\par
1.10 - 20 December 2009\par
\par
Complete reorganisation of the categories and addition of tabs to separate the beginner and advanced features. The patch is now made of {\f1\b 65 patches}.\par
\par
{\f1\b Themes}: CV objects, Exhibition, Grab, Internet, Introduction, LCD, Matrix, Sensor, Text. \par
{\f1\b \par
Externals}: z.abstraction, HC Gilje's Video Projection Tool 4.01 \par
(http://hcgilje.wordpress.com/resources/video-projection-tools/), aka.shell.\par
New objects included from Andrew Benson\rquote
s Jitter Night Course.\par
\par
*********************\par
1.00 - 28 November 2009\par
\par
{\f1\b Initial release of the IMI Max patches}. It contains 6 categories: Global, Sound, Video, Effects, Projection \par
and Computer vision. It is made of 23 patches.\par
\par
{\f1\b Externals installed}: dot_max5_20091015, maxtoolbox 14, sfmarkers~, max object thesaurus\par
\par
The installer is based on by Emannuel Jourdan's installer for the eijes objects \par
The patch structure is provided by Cycling74's new help system.\par
\par
*********************\par
Contact: Nicolas Marechal\par
lecturer in physical computing and design prototyping\par
London College of Communication\par
University of the Arts London\par
n.marechal@lcc.arts.ac.uk\par
}}}